# The devil is in the fine-grained details: Evaluating open-vocabulary object detectors for fine-grained understanding

[The devil is in the fine-grained details: Evaluating open-vocabulary object detectors for fine-grained understanding](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17518)

## Abstract

The FG-OVD benchmark suite is designed to evaluate the fine-grained understanding capabilities of open-vocabulary object detectors.  It includes a set of dynamic object-specific vocabularies with positive and negative captions to test the models' ability to discern detailed attributes such as color, material, and pattern.  The benchmarks are structured in difficulty levels and attribute categories, offering a comprehensive assessment of a detector's ability to accurately recognize and describe objects based on rich, natural language descriptions.

## Benchamarks Suite

Note that the FG-OVD benchmark is based on COCO dataset, you need to download 2017 images from the official [website](https://cocodataset.org/#download).

## Difficulty-based benchmarks

These benchmarks explore open-vocabulary detectors’ capabilities in ascending difficulty scenarios. Starting with the Trivial benchmark, where negative captions are randomly sampled from other objects, we progress through Easy, Medium, and Hard benchmarks, in which negative captions are generated by randomly replacing 3, 2, and 1 attributes, respectively. As the number of attributes replaced decreases, the distinctions between captions become less pronounced and the task more challenging.

- 1_attributes.json -> *Hard*
- 2_attributes.json -> *Medium*
- 3_attributes.json -> *Easy*
- shuffle_negatives.json -> *Trivial*

## Attribute-based benchmarks

This class of benchmarks delves into open-vocabulary detectors’ capabilities in recognizing specific types of attributes. By precisely replacing only one attribute of a specific type in each positive caption (depending on the specific category of the benchmark).

- color.json -> *Color*
- material.json -> *Material*
- pattern.json -> *Pattern*
- transparency.json -> *Transparency*
